So let's see that big picture or at least parts of it.
Because Mom would you be requires this extra database server setup which will tackle in a separate module.
But let's see this part at least the react and Node express API communication part in action in a simple
application.
And no worries this is just a short demo application we'll build one a way bigger one the course project
from the ground up for the rest of this course attached you find a zip folder which can unzip and in
there you'll find a front end and a back and folder.
Now Combined this makes up your merged application and this is a very simple dummy application which
I prepared for you.
The front end holds react application the front end folder here was created.
This project here was created with create react app which is a tool by the REACT team to create react
projects.
And it holds a react application with some components because react is all about components as you will
all learn again in the react refresher In a separate module.
For now you can just take it for granted so we'll have to different components the building blocks of
our front end user interface so to say and with the back and folder with exactly one core file server
J.S. now to run these ends here you need to install node J.S. you can install it from notorious dot
org and there is simply download the latest version 13 in my case but that of course will change over
time does not really affect the way node works or looks like however and simply download that latest
word and walk through the install or you get there the default settings are fine and this will install
No j s so this special javascript runtime onto your machine it will all install whenever to launch your
machine and that's NPM the node package manager.
This is a tool which is required anyways to install the various dependencies so third party libraries
we use in both our back and code as well as our front end code because even though the front end code
is not run by node J.S. It still will use third party libraries which are then simply used by the browser
or also an important part by our build setup.
Our development setup where we have a dummy server that serves our front end which reloads the page
whenever we change something which optimizes our code and so on.
These are all steps which are not run once we deploy our finished front end but which help us during
development and for Dad we also need third party libraries and actually all of the no runtime which
runs this entire front and build process.
So we definitely need no GSK to do anything here.
Now you all see I opened this project here and I'd eat in an integrated development environment.
This is visual studio code a great free to use idea.
You can find if you google for obvious code and which you can then install from the page you get to
code dot visuals to do dot com.
It's free and a way liable for all operating systems so simply download it and walk for the installer
if you want to use that same idea.
Each year as I do now in that idea here.
I also installed some so-called extensions.
You can get to the extensions menu with the extensions and there specifically the extensions.
I recommend that you install are the material I can seem to make sure your file icons look like mine
if you like that look path in tele sense which can help you with auto completion of file names prettier
which helps you with auto formatting your code.
So it is easy to read and you don't have to format it manually and with all that installed.
Also if you go back to the Explorer or use the shortcut you see here.
I also recommend that you look into the themes you got configured under a code preferences colour theme
there you can switch it to a different theme.
I'm using the dark plus default dark theme here which gives me to look you see here.
You also here see the file icons I got from the material I can see.
Last but not least.
I already talked about prettier and that auto formatting.
You can always check out your keyboard shortcuts and they're specifically the format document shortcut
is one you should bind because that will help you use that previous extension to automatically reformat
your code but with that that's basically a setup I have here.
Then I opened dead extracted folder which holds the back end and front end folder and I'm now ready
to go well or almost first of all as I mentioned every end has some packages some dependencies.
It uses you'll find those in the package dodge Jason File which is your project management file you
could say and you'll see that I treat back in and front end as separate projects because they are logically
separated.
Now you see here for the back end in the package does Jason File I got free dependencies free third
party libraries.
This project uses for the front end for the react application.
I got these free dependencies react to library we use react DRM which is all a part of react and react
scripts which need and helps us with our build setup and with this dummy server that serves the react
application and so on.
Now to install these dependencies you need to open up your terminal or command prompt and you can use
the one integrated into your I.T..
You can go to terminal new terminal here to open it and then navigate into your front end folder and
in their run npm install.
And this uses the NPM tool which was installed to Gabba with no chance to install all the dependencies
which are mentioned in the package John Jason File.
It will then create such a node modules folder where these dependencies and their dependencies are actually
stored in.
Now doing this just for the front end alone is not enough.
So I will open a second terminal and also navigate into the back and folder because there I also want
to install all the dependencies so that for both the front and end the back and we got that installed.
So let's wait for it as installation process to finish and thereafter.
Let's start our two servers and see how they communicate with each other.
So the installation of all the dependencies in both the front and back and folder finished and now let's
simply see what we got there before we have a look at the code.
Now keep in mind we have two logically separated ends here and here during development at least we will
also have queue separated servers.
Now of course both runs on our machine here on our computer but actually we will run these two different
ends under two different domains.
Now let's see what we got here in the front and folder.
You can run NPM start to start a development server that's part of the setup basically added by us react
strips dependency which will host your react application does react.
Single page application.
So it's a development server which the end hosts this single index HMO file which you find that the
public folder there which then in turn will import all the scripts it needs and launch your react app
you find that application it should open up automatically actually under a local host.
Colon 3000 local host might look strange but this is your domain.
It's a way to belong to a local machine that's a special domain there and colon 3000 is the port on
which were visiting this and combined.
This actually is a domain as it would be the case for your page.
Dot com.
So this combined is the actual domain.
And if you would visit another page on let's say local hosted 5000 that might look very similar but
it would actually be a totally different domain as if it were served by a totally different machine.
So here react automatically runs on local host free thousand and that's our ReACT single page application.
Now let's go to the back and folder and there you can all run NPM start.
Now here nothing opens up automatically but you will see that you're now in a process which doesn't
stop so you can't enter a new command.
By the way it's the same for the front end.
That is the default and it is what should be the case because dad means you have a running server.
You can always stop these processes by hitting control see on your keyboard but then of course the server
will be down.
So as long as you're developing you should have it up and running so we get these two running servers
and the node back and server here actually will run under local host five.
However if you enter Dad you will not see anything because this specific end point slash nothing is
not supported.
Remember when I said Dad you as a developer decide which end points you want to support and you want
to execute code on.
Well that's not one of them things change if you enter slash products there however you see now you
get back in the end a javascript object.
This is actually this Jason notation I was talking about which holds a product's key and then an empty
array.
So here we seem to get back some data even though it's empty and that already looks quite promising.
And now will really keep in mind local host five thousand is a totally different server than local host
three thousand.
Now obviously here we have some communication problems with your node server up and running however
reload the react app on local host free thousand and you will see that the loading part goes away and
instead we see could not find any products.
Now let's add a book here for let's say twelve ninety nine and click add product and what you see as
it now appears down there.
That's nice but what you will also see if you reload now and you keep both servers up and running in
between you still get that you see a loading for a fraction of a second and then you see a book here.
So it looks like the book we created here really was stored somewhere was stored on our back and server.
And when we reload these react app we're fetching data from that server.
And since the server runs on its own domain.
But technically of course on the same machine as our front end that request is super super fast which
is why we see that loading text only for a fraction of a second if we see it at all.
But the really important thing here is that we are storing data on our back and so on the note express
app or with help of the note express app and we're fetching it from there.
That's how it works.
Let's now have a look at the code to get a rough understanding of what's working together there.